hello youtube today I'm going to show
you how to create a basic bouncing ball
in Adobe After Effects cs5 so I open
After Effects go to composition new
composition and I set my frame rate to
30 1920 but today it is a bit high I'd
like to go to 1280 by 720 which is 720p
30 frames a second okay now what we're
gonna do we go to composition
composition settings in order to change
your background colour to anything but
black I'm going to change it to dark red
for example okay so that's composition
composition settings or control key or
command key on a Mac next we go to the
shape tool selection ellipse tool hold
down shift and left-click and drag go to
the shape go back to the selection tool
then we'll click sorry single click
anywhere on the background I like the
ball you've drawn and then click on the
Pan behind tool and you see this Anchor
Point here you hold down ctrl and drag
the anchor point until it aligns itself
in the middle of the ball and that's
reset your anchor point go back to
selection tool okay this strokes
horrible get rid of that no stroke by
selecting and no stroke okay so it's
created a basic 2d ball
on a 2d background all the layers in
this composition a 2d and no 3d layers
whatsoever so now we go to shape layer
press P for position and then we go to
the timeline right and we trim the work
area down to two seconds and then the
time navigator we get a much better
resolution by dragging right to the left
and this is the beginning so I'll click
the position stopwatch to create a
keyframe for the beginning of the comp
I'm going to go to two seconds and I
drag the ball where I wanted to end up
and you'll see it creates keyframes in
between so now if you slide back some
forwards you've got a very boring
looking ball traveling between the start
position and end position it's not what
we want we want it to have some life
okay so what I'm gonna do press the HOME
key to come back to frame 1 or frame 0
and then what I do is I click the graph
editor okay position no you click on
this separate dimensions button here and
you'll get the X which is red and the Y
which is green okay and they're
displayed separately now then the x
position is the left to right position
of the ball you can see these two
keyframes here
Linnea if you drag around those two
keyframes in the box and then go to
convert selected keyframes to linear
by now Linnea okay now that I come to
the interesting part the Y position this
is the top to bottom shall we say okay
this is the last keyframe here with a
bald on the bottom right hand side of
the screen so we select that keyframe
and no don't want click it's alright we
select it ctrl C to copy it or edit copy
and then we'll basically go back some
stage earlier in time and paste that
keyframe number 10 frames sorry another
5 frames are 15 frames frames paste that
keyframe with the borders of the bottom
right there again this is on the wide
position only and then paste it here
again and again and gradually lessen the
gaps between keyframes the end no that's
created keyframes basically on the y
axis so we need to make this ball bounce
so it's traveling from the top to the
bottom so you want them to do is click
on the first keyframe hold down alt and
drag on the right hand side on the
Bezier handle so the arc
same for the second one position your
cursor above the keyframe add that alt
and drag on the right-hand side and make
the arc peak reach about two-thirds of
the height of the height of the last
peak and so on this one here to hold up
drag and again here so that peak which
is about roughly two-thirds again here
drag the Bezier handles the influence of
the previous peak the last keyframe I
can grab okay let's try that actually
not bad at all
it's a clickable paths not the best
bounce in the world but it's a pretty
good start so there you go that's how
great a basic bouncing ball in and Daini
after effects cs5 point 5 thank you
you